JOSE MANUEL MEJIA VILLENA
De:                                jwsr@mail.pitt.edu
Enviado el:                        Friday, October 25, 2024 1:28 PM
Para:                              JOSE MANUEL MEJIA VILLENA
Asunto:                            [JWSR] Editor Decision

Dear author:

Thank you for submitting your paper to the Journal of World-Systems Research.

We have received external reviews for your paper, "Indigenous peasant struggles against imperialist
mining and its antisystemic effects in the dynamics of capital accumulation in the XXI century." After
careful consideration, and our own reading of the paper and the reviews, we have decided to request that
you revise and resubmit your submission to the Journal of World-Systems Research.

You can find along with this letter the reviews we have received. If you choose to resubmit this paper for
possible publication in JWSR, you must provide along with your re-submission a detailed memo
indicating how you have revised the paper in response to the reviewers’ and editor’s feedback. You can
provide this in the “Comments for the Editor” box which you will find on the author submission page on
our website. Thank you for allowing us the opportunity to review your manuscript. We believe you will find
the reviewers’ feedback helpful in your research.

To resubmit your paper, please log into your account as an author. In doing so, you will see which articles
you have submitted to the journal and where they are in the publishing process. Clicking on the "in
review" link will take you to a new web page where you can upload a revised version of your article. Once
you have uploaded your new version, please click the icon next to "notify editor" to make sure that we get
a notification that the changes have been submitted.

Sincerely,

Andrej Grubacic - Editor
Rallie Murray - Managing Editor
Journal of World-Systems Research



------------------------------------------------------
Reviewer A:

Important link between the role of resistance and the rate of profit, in thinking about it in a formal sense,
whereby the substantive translates into impacts on the instrumental process of capital accumulation.
However, the author(s) do not address this claim in much of the article, instead reproducing a more
standard historical case study around mining, accumulation and resistance in Peru (see prior examples
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0094582X18820274;
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0094582X17709541;

                                                             1https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0094582X12468866;
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0094582X7700400304).

There is a major detour into a dissection of “Indigenous” as a political category that can be reduced to
make the necessary claim for the argument concerning antimining resistance as antisystemic force
reducing the rate of profit. Similarly can be stated for some of the historical discussion about antimining
resistance in Peru. It can justify the hypothesis, without the long excursions. And, in a sense, even with
these discussions the author does not justify what role indigenous-cholo has in the claim about the role
of antisystemic resistance in slowing the rate of profit.

Where is a method section that explains the link between the theory/hypothesis and the data to
test/demonstrate its validity? The majority of the data that is put forward does not actually respond to the
hypothesis. Instead, it demonstrates the process of contestation, which is well understood in the
literature. The data that is there to explain the relationship between resistance and rate of profit is not
well unpacked in relation to the historical data to substantiate the qualitative relationship.

The author should focus on organizing the paper moreso around their central claim, and use the proper
data justified by method for demonstrating that claim. If that is done, this is an important contribution for
how Marxist political economy can be linked to the discussions of socio-environmental conflicts around
primary goods production. For instance, what about Svampa, or the Extractivism literature? Or also
Casanova on the Sociologia de Explotacion, which has a similar emphasis on the formal in Marxist
political economy? Casanova even edited a book with Amin thinking about the World-System from the
Global South perspective. They are having a very similar discussion, yet are not engaged in this
discussion. The beginning has discussion of Arrighi and others, but they are dropped off. Basically, I think
the authors needs to make a decision to narrow the article and thereby make a solid contribution
concerning their central claim about the relationship between resistance and the rate of profit. Other
pieces that are cut, like the exegesis into discussions around indigenous, can be saved for other, future
articles the author develops.

The article needs editing for English. For instance, there is a lot of using “of” when
“’s” is more appropriate. The Spanish syntax with English words leads to a cumbersome read, and at
times impacts the clarity. Additionally, at times Spanish words are inserted for English words, like “cero”
instead of “zero”.

Recommendation: Revisions Required

------------------------------------------------------




_________________ Journal of World-Systems Research jwsr.pitt.edu

                                                             2











This document was created with the Win2PDF “Print to PDF” printer available at
                              https://www.win2pdf.com
  This version of Win2PDF 10 is for evaluation and non-commercial use only.
           Visit https://www.win2pdf.com/trial/ for a 30 day trial license.
             This page will not be added after purchasing Win2PDF.
                        https://www.win2pdf.com/purchase/

